Welcome back everyone.
In this series of lectures we're going to now learn how to deal with color data and we'll do this with
the Safa 10 data set some part 1 to focus on the actual data itself as well as creating our model and
the sofar 10 dataset are slightly larger images and what we just dealt with.
They're 32 by 32 images of 10 different objects so the different types of objects available are airplanes
cards birds cats deers dogs etc..
And the main thing to note is these are color images.
Keep in mind.
Thirty two by thirty two is still quite small but you'll be able to see some level detail that a human
can discern what's actually in the image.
So in this series of lectures we're actually going to be re reusing a lot of the previous compositional
neural network code.
So really we're going to focus on is the additions necessary due to the introduction of the three color
channels.
That is the red green and blue color channels.
So let's head to a notebook and get started and we'll be copy and pasting quite a bit of the code because
about 90 percent of the code is the exact same as the previous series.
It's just a couple of additions to deal with the three color channels.
Let's add to a notebook to get started.
Okay.
Here I am at a notebook I've already imported the basics.
Let's load up our data set.
This one is also built into cares for learning purposes.
We will say from tensor flow that carris thought data sets.
Import sofar 10 and then we'll load it really similar to the way we did last time.
It's actually already split for us when we run low data.
We load up the training pairs and the test pairs and then we set that equal to so far 10 low data.
Go ahead and run that and we'll load up the data for you and let's take a look now at the shape of our
data.
So notice now the shape has an extra dimension to it because there's three color channels so there's
fifty thousand images there are 32 by 32 and there's three color channels a red green and blue color
channel.
So let's take a look at just the single image X train 0 and it's this array right here.
Let's go ahead and check out the shape of it.
It's 32 by 32 by three three let's say peel t that M show and show you with the sexual image looks like
and hopefully you can kind of blow your vision a little bit and see that this is an image of a frog
and you can pass and ran the numbers here within the fifty thousand points to see different images.
So here we can see this is an image of a horse.
These are very small images are only 32 by 32 but there is enough information here for a human to detect
what it's looking at.
Some of these keep in mind are a little less clear.
So I'm just kind of randomly choosing here this one maybe a little less clear to me it looks like it
there and we can check that against the labels.
I believe this is it there.
But you can see that because the images are so small.
Some of these are kind of bound to be misclassified.
So it won't get as good performance as we did on the end this dataset.
OK.
So just before we need to perform pre processing right now if we take a look at one of these images
and ask for the max value they go from 0 to 255 for each of the color channels.
So we'll do the same thing as before we'll simply say X train is equal to x train divided by 255 and
keep in mind you should only be running these commands one time otherwise you'll be dividing by two
fifty five twice.
So keep that in mind then we'll say excess divided by two fifty five.
Go ahead and run that.
And if we take a look at the size or shape of X test there's ten thousand images in the test set.
Okay.
Also just like before.
If we take a look at our y training data you'll see that the labels themselves are just as we did last
time.
Are labeled by an integer.
So what we actually need is not have these be read in as continuous values but as categorical values
and just as before we can convert these by saying tensor flow that carries that utilize import to categorical
and then we'll transform these to be categorical so we'll say that my Y categorical for my training
set is equal to two categorical on y train and we can specify that there's 10 classes here and we'll
do the exact same thing for our test set to categorical on y test 10.
So so far as far as reshaping anything nothing has changed from what we did with the black and white
images the scaling still works exactly the same because of num pi luckily this division by two fifty
five happens across all three dimensions on the color channels.
So it scaled across all of those so we don't need to worry about that and the labels themselves same
deal as last time we convert them to categories and as a quick no a common question is well what did
these numbers actually represent.
Because if we take a look at for example why tests of zero recall that number three if we take a look
at actually let's take a look at train so why train of zero.
It says the label is six.
Well let's say PDT M show on X train of zero.
And we see the result.
That was a frog.
So how do we know that six actually connects to frog if you just google search.
So far ten label names it will show you the list that airplane 0 automobiles 1.
So I can see here frog is six or you can go to the official website.
So far 10 dataset and it hasn't organized in that order.
So airplane zero automobiles 1 et cetera.
So this is the official Web site.
If you just go to so far ten data set and then just look up the official Web site on Google you'll find
that there's also a larger labels so there's this a far one hundred but that is much too big of a dataset
for us to run.
And it's the same ideas.
So far 10.
OK.
So we'll come back to our notebook.
We understand how to work off the data.
We understand the labels.
Let's go ahead and build out our model and what I'm going to do is I'll be copying and pasting some
of this code from our notebook because it's pretty much the exact same as we did last time.
The only thing we need to edit is our input shapes.
So let's go ahead and build out our sequential model just as we did before.
And let's add in a conversational layer as well as a pulling layer.
I will copy and paste this code from our notebook and then just note the changes.
So the main change years will sleep the same number of filters the same kernel size.
However recall that the input shape is defined by our data.
So this should be 32 by 32 by three which is defined up.
When we checked out the actual shape of a single image.
Next test which is 32 by 32 by three.
OK.
Now when you're dealing with more complex images recall now that a single image if we just take a look
or we if we think about the number of pixels or data points really inside of a black and white m this
image the total number of values was twenty eight times twenty eight which is seven hundred eighty four
the total number of values within a color image here is going to be 32 times 32 times three as you can
see there is a lot more information within this color image than there was in the previous m this dataset
because of that it's probably a good idea that as our images get more complex and larger and also more
complexity to the color that we add in more compositional and pulling layers.
So we'll go ahead and copy and paste this and add in another compositional layer as well as another
pulling layer.
And often researchers also like to have different amounts of filters in the different number of layers
so you can have an expanding number of filters as the congressional leaders go deeper for our use case.
These images are pretty simple so we'll keep everything the same.
OK then we'll go ahead and keep it to just two compositional layers followed by two pulling layers and
we'll flatten out the images just as we did before.
So we flatten out the images.
And because of the added complexity of the number of points here when we're adding in our dense layer
we'll go ahead and add more neurons to it.
We'll say 256 neurons with the activation function equal to Iraq to fight linear unit.
And then finally everything else going to be pretty much the same we'll say model.
Go ahead and add dense the activation function should be equal to soft Max because it's a multi class
function.
And then we compile the models say it model compile the loss should be categorical cross entropy you
can choose whatever optimizer you want we'll go.
Just choose the atom optimizer that's should be fine.
And if you want to keep track of different metrics speak beyond just loss you could say metrics is equal
to and I can pass in that accuracy call.
Okay run that make sure you have no typos.
Looks like that went well.
You can order a summary of your model by saying model that summary.
Here we can see the different layers and let's go ahead and add in early stopping so we'll say from
tensor flow that carries that callbacks import early stopping just as we did before we'll create an
early stop call we'll say early stopping we'll monitor the loss.
You could also technically monitor the accuracy if that was your most important metric.
And then let's give it a patients of 2 and let's fit this will say a model that fit fit to the training
data.
Make sure you correctly fit to the categorical versions of the labels say epochs.
Just choose a larger number.
Probably won't change or train for 15 total but we have the early stopping to make sure make sure you
specify your validation data.
That's equal to x test and Y categorical test.
And then finally add in the callbacks for the early stopping fit that makes you you see that first output
to make sure you're doing this correctly and that's pretty much it.
So you notice on this very first epoch the accuracy isn't so good but as we continue training we should
see that accuracy goes go up and that's what's kind of nice about adding an accuracy as a metrics call
here because it's pretty hard to interpret the loss beyond just that it should be going down.
What's nice is I can really interpret the accuracy very intuitively and can see it go up as the epochs
get trained further and further okay.
The other thing keep in mind is that default accuracy by random guessing should actually be 10 percent.
So the fact that we're going above 10 percent is really good and we're going way beyond that because
if you were to randomly guess what class an image belonged to you'd have a 10 percent chance of getting
it right here based on epoch 7 we're already performing that zero point seventy five percent accuracy
so we're doing pretty well on this dataset.
All right I'll end this lecture here and coming up next we'll talk about evaluating the model and we'll
also talk about performing predictions on new data.
I'll see you there.